JAX-RS
======
JAX-RS: Java API for RESTful Web Services is a Java programming language API spec that provides support in creating web services according to the Representational State Transfer architectural pattern. JAX-RS uses annotations, introduced in Java SE 5, to simplify the development and deployment of web service clients and endpoints. From version 1.1 on, JAX-RS is an official part of Java EE 6.

Following are the reference implementations of JAX-RS:
  1. Jersey
  2. Apache CXF
  3. RESTeasy

We don't really need any above reference implementation developing REST application. we can just create a simple servlet with using the below Annotations but the tools will give you easy implementation.
  
  JAX-RS - Annotation & Description
  ---------------------------------
1. @Path - Relative path of the resource class/method.
2. @GET - HTTP Get request, used to fetch resource.
3. @PUT - HTTP PUT request, used to create resource.
4. @POST - HTTP POST request, used to create/update resource.
5. @DELETE - HTTP DELETE request, used to delete resource.
6. @HEAD - HTTP HEAD request, used to get status of method availability.
7. @Produces - States the HTTP Response generated by web service. For example, APPLICATION/XML, TEXT/HTML, APPLICATION/JSON etc.
8. @Consumes - States the HTTP Request type. For example, application/x-www-formurlencoded to accept form data in HTTP body during POST request.
9. @PathParam - Binds the parameter passed to the method to a value in path.
10. @QueryParam - Binds the parameter passed to method to a query parameter in the path.
11. @MatrixParam - Binds the parameter passed to the method to a HTTP matrix parameter in path.
12. @HeaderParam - Binds the parameter passed to the method to a HTTP header.
13. @CookieParam - Binds the parameter passed to the method to a Cookie.
14. @FormParam - Binds the parameter passed to the method to a form value.
15. @DefaultValue - Assigns a default value to a parameter passed to the method.
16. @Context - Context of the resource.
